---
layout: post
title: "Team Geek"
date: 2015-05-28 14:11:50 +0800
comments: true
categories: 
---

[Team Geek - A software Developer's Guide to Working Well with Others](http://www.amazon.cn/Team-Geek-A-Software-Developer-s-Guide-to-Programming-Well-with-Others-Fitzpatrick-Brian-W/dp/1449302440/)

#一.The Myth of Genius Programmer

The critical idea in this chapter is to understand that software development is a team sport. And in order to succeed on an engineering team, you need to reorganize your behaviors around the core principles of `humility, respect, and trust`.

##How programmers behave in general.

1. Help Me Hide My Code

	The key motif here is insecurity. People are afraid of others seeing and judging their work in progress. In one sense, it’s just a part of human nature—nobody likes to be criticized, especially for things that aren’t finished. This attitude tipped us off to a trend within software development. Insecurity is actually the symptom of a larger problem.
	
2. The Genius Myth

	Humans have a natural instinct to locate leaders and role models, idolize them, and attempt to imitate them. We all need heroes for inspiration, and the programming world has its heroes too. The phenomenon of “techie-celebrity” has almost spilled over into mythology. We all want to write something worldchanging like Linux, or design the next brilliant programming language.
	
	It turns out that this Genius Myth is just another aspect of our insecurity. Most programmers are afraid to share work they’ve only just started, because it means peers will see their mistakes and know the author of the code is not a genius.
	
	Another common motivation for holding your cards close to your chest is the fear that another programmer might take your idea and run with it before you get around to working on it. By keeping it secret, you control the idea.
	
you’re doing it wrong, and it is a big deal.

1. Hiding Is Considered Harmful

	If you spend all your time working alone, you’re increasing the risk of failure and cheating your potential for growth.	First of all, how do you even know if you’re on the right track?

	If you keep your great idea hidden from the world and refuse to show anyone anything until the implementation is polished, you’re taking a huge gamble. It’s easy to make fundamental design mistakes early on. You risk reinventing wheels. You need to make sure that you’re working on the right thing, you’re doing it correctly, and it hasn’t been done before. The chances of an early misstep are high. The more feedback you solicit early on, the more you lower this risk. Remember the triedand-true mantra of “Fail early, fail fast, fail often”.
	
	Early sharing isn’t just about preventing personal missteps and getting your ideas vetted. It’s also important to strengthen what we call the `bus factor` of your project.
	
	Bus factor (noun): the number of people that need to get hit by a bus before your project is completely doomed.
	
	How dispersed is the knowledge and know-how in your project? If you’re the only person who understands how the prototype code works, it may be nice job security, but it also means the project is toast if you get hit by a bus. If you’re working with a friend, however, you’ve doubled the bus factor. And if you’ve got a small team designing and prototyping together, things are even better—the project won’t be over when a team member disappears.Remember: team members may not literally get hit by buses, but other unpredictable life events still happen. Someone may get married, have to move away, leave the company, or have to take care of a sick relative.You need to future-proof a project’s success by managing the bus factor.

    Beyond the bus factor, there’s the issue of overall pace of progress.It’s easy to forget that working alone is often a tough slog, much slower than people want to admit. How much do you learn when working alone? How fast do you move? The Web is a great dumping ground of opinions and information, but it’s no substitute for actual human experience. Working with other people directly increases the collective wisdom behind the effort. When you get stuck on something absurd, how much time do you waste pulling yourself out of the hole? Think about how different the experience would be if you had a couple of peers to look over your shoulder and tell you—instantly—how you goofed and how to get past the problem. This is exactly why teams sit together (or do pair programming) in software engineering companies: you often find yourself needing a second pair of eyes.
    
    Ambitious projects evolve quickly and have to adapt to changing environments as they go. Projects run into unpredictable design obstacles, or political obstacles, or simply discover that things aren’t working as planned. Requirements morph unexpectedly. How do you get that feedback loop so that you know the instant your plans or designs need to change? Answer: by working in a team. Eric Raymond is often quoted as saying, “Many eyes make all bugs shallow,” but a better version might be, “Many eyes make sure your project stays relevant and on track.” People working in caves awake to discover that while their original vision may be complete, the world has changed and made the product irrelevant.
    
    `working alone is inherently riskier than working with others.` While you may be afraid of someone stealing your idea or thinking you’re dumb, you should be much more scared of wasting huge swaths of your time toiling away on the wrong thing.
    
##Software development is a team sport.

Creating a superstar team is the real goal, and is fiendishly difficult. The best teams make brilliant use of their superstars, but the whole is always greater than the sum of its parts. 

You need to work with other people. Share your vision. Divide the labor.Learn from others. Create a brilliant team.

###The Three Pillars

In order to reach collaborative nirvana,you first need to learn and embrace what we call the “three pillars” of social skills. These three principles aren’t just about greasing the wheels of relationships; they’re the foundation on which all healthy interaction and collaboration are based.

* Humility

	You are not the center of the universe. You’re neither omniscient nor infallible. You’re open to self-improvement.
	
* Respect

	You genuinely care about others you work with. You treat them as human beings, and appreciate their abilities and accomplishments.
	
* Trust

	You believe others are competent and will do the right thing,and you’re OK with letting them drive when appropriate.
	
Together, we refer to these principles as HRT. We pronounce this as “heart” and not “hurt” because it’s all about decreasing pain and not about injuring people.

Do not underestimate the power of playing the social game. It’s not about tricking or manipulating people; it’s about creating relationships to get things done, and relationships always outlast projects.

###HRT in Practice

* Lose the Ego

	“Being humble” is not the same as saying one should be an utter doormat: there’s nothing wrong with self-confidence. Just don’t come off like a know-it-all. Even better, think about going for a “collective” ego instead; rather than worrying about whether you’re personally awesome, try to build a sense of team accomplishment and group pride.
	
* Learn to Both Deal Out and Handle Criticism

	Criticism is almost never personal in a professional software engineering environment—it’s usually just part of the process of making a better product. The trick is to make sure you (and those around you) understand the difference between constructive criticism of someone’s creative output and flat-out assaults against someone’s character. The latter is useless—it’s petty and nearly impossible to act on. The former is always helpful and gives guidance on how to improve. And most importantly, it’s imbued with `respect`: the person giving the constructive criticism genuinely cares about the other person and wants her to improve herself or her work. Learn to respect your peers and give constructive criticism politely. If you truly respect someone, you’ll be motivated to choose tactful, helpful phrasing—a skill acquired with much practice.
	
	On the other side of the conversation, you need to learn to accept criticism as well. This means not just being `humble` about your skills, but `trusting` that the other person has your best interests (and those of your project!) at heart and doesn’t actually think you’re an idiot. Programming is a skill like anything else. It improves with practice. If a peer pointed out ways in which you could improve your juggling, would you take it as an attack on your character and value as a human being? We hope not. In the same way, `your self-worth shouldn’t be connected to the code you write`.
	
* Fail Fast; Learn; Iterate

	It’s widely recognized that if you’re not failing now and then, you’re not being innovative enough or taking enough risks. Failure is viewed as a golden opportunity to learn and improve for the next go-around.
	
	The key to learning from your mistakes is to `document` your failures.Write up “postmortems,”as they’re often called in our business.A proper postmortem should always contain an explanation of `what was learned and what is going to change` as a result of the learning experience. Then make sure you put it in an easy-to-find place and really follow through on the proposed changes. Remember that properly documenting failures also makes it easier for other people (present and future) to know what happened and avoid repeating history. Don’t erase your tracks—light them up like a runway for those who follow you!

	A good postmortem should include the following:		* A brief summary	* A timeline of the event, from discovery through investigation to resolution	* The primary cause of the event	* Impact and damage assessment	* A set of action items to fix the problem immediately	* A set of action items to prevent the event from happening again	* Lessons learned
* Leave Time for Learning
	Tt is fun to be the most knowledgeable person in the room, and mentoring others can be incredibly rewarding. The problem is that once you reach a local maximum on your team,you stop learning. And when you stop learning, you get bored.Or accidentally become obsolete. It’s really easy to get addicted to being a leading player; but only by giving up some ego will you ever change directions and get exposed to new things. Again, it’s about increasing `humility` and being willing to learn as much as teach. Put yourself outside your comfort zone now and then; find a fishbowl with bigger fish than you and rise to whatever challenges they hand out to you. You’ll be much happier in the long run.
	
* Learn Patience

* Be Open to Influence

	The more you are open to influence, the more you are able to influence; the more vulnerable you are, the stronger you appear.It’s OK for someone else to change your mind. Choose your battles carefully.Remember that in order to be heard properly, you first need to listen to others. In the case of being influenced, this listening should take place before you’ve put a stake in the ground or firmly declared that you’ve decided on something—if you’re constantly changing your mind, people will think you’re wishy-washy.
	
	Admitting you’ve made a mistake or you’re simply out of your league is a way to increase your status over the long run. In fact, it encompasses all of HRT: it’s an outward show of `humility`,it’s about accountability and taking responsibility, it’s a signal that you `trust` others’ opinions, and in return, people end up `respecting` your honesty and strength. Sometimes the best thing you can do is just to say, “I don’t know.”


#二.Building an Awesome Team Culture

##What IS Culture?

A team’s culture isn’t just the way in which team members write code or treat one another: it’s `a set of shared experiences, values, and goals` that is unique to every engineering team we’ve ever been on or observed. The founding members of a team or company define the biggest part of a team’s culture, but it will continue to change and develop over the life of the team.

The elements that make up a team culture vary wildly. Some are directly relevant to writing software, like code reviews, test-driven development, and the value you place on having good design docs before starting to crank out reams of code. Some elements might be more social, like going out to a particular restaurant for lunch every Thursday, or going out for drinks at a favorite bar on Fridays. Some of them might seem completely silly or outlandish to an outsider.All of these things make up a team’s culture and affect the team’s productivity and ability to attract and retain good team members.

Take a look at any wildly successful software company today—Google, Apple, Microsoft, Oracle—and you’ll find that each company has a very different culture: one that has its roots in the culture that was set by the founders and earliest employees. As these companies have grown and matured, their cultures have evolved and changed, but they’ve still retained a unique identity that trickles down to just about every aspect of how they develop products, treat their employees, and compete with other companies.

##Why Should You Care?

In short, you should care because if you don’t put effort into building and maintaining your culture, your team will eventually be overtaken by a strong personality who cultivates his culture in your team. This culture may turn out to be a productive, healthy culture that cranks out piles of great code, but more often than not,it won’t turn out as such, and you’ll suddenly find `a lot of your energy that used to go into designing and writing code is suddenly expended in arguments and infighting`.

while the founders and leads usually tend to the health of your culture, `every member of your team participates in the culture and bears some responsibility for defining, maintaining, and defending the culture`. When someone joins your team, she doesn’t pick up the culture from the team leader alone, but from every team member she works with.

A “strong culture” is one that is open to change that improves it, yet is resistant to radical change that harms it. The team cultures that are most successful are those that `focus the majority of the team’s effort on shipping great software`.A strong culture gives you focus, efficiency, and strength, and these things make for a happier team.

The interesting thing about team culture is that, if you build a strongly defined one, it will become `self-selecting`. In the open source world, projects that are built on HRT and focused on writing clean,elegant, maintainable code will attract engineers who are interested in—surprise, surprise—working with people they respect and trust, and writing clean, elegant, maintainable code. If, however, your team is built on a culture of aggression, hazing, and ad hominem attacks, you’re going to wind up attracting more people like that.

##Culture and People

In the software world, a great deal of creative thinking is required of engineers working on a product,and if you want a great product, you need great engineers. If you want great engineers to do great work (and to stick around), you need to create a culture for them that allows them to safely share ideas and have a voice in the decision-making process.

If you want to get excellent engineers to work on your team, you need to start by hiring, well, some great engineers! That may sound weird, but the fact of the matter is that `most great engineers want to be on teams with other great engineers`. Many great engineers we know gravitate toward teams where they can learn from giants of the industry.So how do you attract these engineers in the first place?

For starters, they’re going to want to be able to not only contribute to the development of your product, but also participate in the product’s decision-making process, and that usually means some level of `consensus-driven management`.In the case of consensus-driven management, the entire team participates in the decision-making process.

What we mean by “consensus” is that `everyone has a strong sense of ownership and responsibility for the product’s success` and that the leaders really listen to the team (with an emphasis on the “respect” component of HRT). This may mean there are times when extended discussion and reflection is what the product needs to succeed, and there are other times when the team agrees they need to move quickly. In the latter case, team members may decide to entrust a great deal of the nitty-gritty day-to-day decision-making to one or more team leads. In order for this to happen, the team as a whole needs to agree on the general mission of the team, and believe it or not, the key to that is the development of a `team mission statement`.

Just as important as your team’s decision-making process is `the manner in which team members treat one another`, because this is more self-selecting than anything else.If you create a culture of HRT where team members treat one another kindly and take the effort to give constructive criticism, you’ll not only attract a much larger set of people, but you’ll also spend a great deal more of your energy writing software. Having a strong team ego is good; a team totally eclipsed by individual egos is a recipe for disaster. 

`Constructive criticism is essential to the growth and development of any engineering team`. It requires a certain amount of self-confidence to take any kind of criticism, and we think constructive criticism is the easiest kind to receive. On the downside, it’s a lot harder to give someone constructive criticism than to simply lambast her or ridicule something she did. Of course, we realize it’s incredibly difficult to solicit and then receive constructive criticism from most people—they assume that when you ask them to criticize your work, you’re only looking for compliments and assurance.

`Aggressive people can (usually) get along fine in a quieter environment, but quieter, more introverted people rarely excel (or enjoy working) in an aggressive environment`—it’s not only harder to hear their voices over the noise, but it also tends to discourage them from being active participants. If you’re looking for a culture that allows the broadest range of people to work most efficiently, you could do a lot worse than building that culture on humility,respect, and trust.

`Calm, easygoing cultures built on respect are more vulnerable to disruption by aggressive people than aggressive cultures are vulnerable to disruption from more easygoing people`. Easygoing cultures need to be aware of this and not let the aggressive newcomer take over, typically by refusing to engage this person in an aggressive tone. In some cases, one or more of the more senior team members may have to meet the aggressive newcomer head-on to prevent her from harming an easygoing team culture.

##Communication Patterns of Successufl Cultures

###High-Level Synchronization

At the highest level, the team needs to keep common goals in sync and follow best practices around communicating their progress.

* The Mission Statement

	For an engineering team, writing a mission statement is a way to concisely define the direction and limit the scope of your product.Writing a good mission statement takes some time and effort, but it can potentially save you years of work by clarifying what your team should and shouldn’t be working on.

	As your project progresses, the mission statement keeps things on track. It shouldn’t become an insurmountable impediment to change, however. If radical changes happen to the environment or business plan (say, at a startup company), software team members need to be honest with themselves and reevaluate whether the mission still makes sense. If a company or product pivots suddenly, the mission statement needs to keep up.

* Efficient Meetings

	If you’re trying to design something new, try to include no more than five people in your meeting—it’s practically impossible to come up with new designs and make decisions with more than five people in a room unless there’s only one person in the room making the decisions.

	Meetings are frequently an interruption to what many refer to as “make time,” inspired by Paul Graham’s “Maker’s Schedule, Manager’s Schedule.”It can be hard for engineers to get into the zone if they’re constantly stopping work to attend meetings. Schedule time on your calendar in three- to four-hour blocks and label these blocks as “busy” or even “make time,” and get your work done. If you have to set up a meeting, try to set it up near another natural break in the day, like lunchtime, or the very end of the day.
	
	Five simple rules for running a meeting:		1. Only invite people who absolutely need to be there.	2. Have an agenda and distribute it well before the meeting starts.	3. End the meeting early if you’ve accomplished the meeting’s goals.	4. Keep the meeting on track.	5. Try to schedule the meeting near other interrupt points in your day (e.g., lunch, end of day).

	If you’re going to have a meeting, create an agenda and distribute it to all attendees at least a day before the meeting so that they’ll know what to expect. Invite as few people as possible (remember the cost of synchronous communication).
	
	Only invite people to the meeting who actually need to be there for the meeting to accomplish its goal.
	
	Whoever’s running the meeting should actually run the meeting and not hesitate to (gently) cut off someone who veers off-topic or, even worse, tries to monopolize the conversation. Doing this well can be tricky, but is worthwhile. And most importantly, don’t be afraid to end a meeting early if you’ve completed the agenda.
	
* Working in a “Geographically Challenged” Team
	
	When you’re part of a distributed team or working remotely from them, you not only need to find different ways to communicate, but also need to put more work into communication, period. If you’re on a team that has remote workers, this means documenting and sharing decisions in writing, usually over email. Online chats, instant messages, and hallway conversations might be where a lot of discussion takes place, but there needs to be some way to broadcast relevant discussions like these to everyone to make sure they’re informed and participating (and as a bonus, archived email lists provide documentation). Video chat is also incredibly useful as a quick conversation enabler, and these days it’s pretty cheap to outfit a whole team with webcams.

	“If the discussion didn’t happen on the email list, then it never really happened.” People spent lots of time bantering around ideas in chat rooms, but in order to make the resolutions “real” we had to be mindful of everyone else who didn’t witness them. By forcing conversations to re-post to email lists, we gave the entire distributed team a chance to see how decisions were arrived at (and to speak up if they wanted to). This is particularly critical if you’re trying to encourage a consensus-based team culture.
	
	`Talking to someone from a remote location should be as frictionless as walking over to his desk`. If you’re working remotely, overcommunicate with your team using every available medium (e.g., online chat, instant messages, email, video chat, phone calls, etc.) to make sure everyone knows not only that you exist, but also what you’re working on. And most important of all, `do not underestimate the bandwidth of a face-to-face conversation`.No matter how much you email, chat, or call, don’t be afraid to regularly get on a plane and visit the rest of your team. This goes for remote employees, remote teams, and remote offices as well—make the time to get out to the home office and talk to people.
	
* Design Docs

	A design doc is typically owned by one person, authored by two or three, and reviewed by a larger set. It serves not only as a highlevel blueprint of your future project, but also as a low-cost way to communicate to your larger team what you want to do and how you intend to do it. Since you haven’t spent weeks (or months) writing code, it’s a lot easier to accept criticism at this point and you’ll wind up with a better product and a better implementation.In addition, once you’ve nailed down the design doc, it will serve as your guide for both scheduling and dividing the work on your project. Once you start coding, however, you should treat your design doc as a living document and not one carved in stone: you and your team `should update the document as your project grows and changes`, not once you’ve shipped, although this is easier said than done. Most teams have no docs at all, while the rest have a short period of awesome docs, followed by a long period of out-ofdate docs.
	
###Day-to-Day Discussions

* Mailing Lists

* Online Chat

	Online chat is an incredibly convenient way for teams to communicate, especially since it provides a way to send a quick request to a teammate without interrupting her work (providing, of course, she has her chat program configured to not interrupt her work!). It’s a good tool for teams to use if they’re doing some light work in the evening or on the weekend, or if one team member is out of the office for a day or two. One-on-one chat is useful and certainly has its place in team communication, but we strongly recommend that teams use some sort of group chat mechanism.
	
	It’s very tempting to indulge your insecurity and take what might be perceived as a stupid question to a one-on-one discussion rather than risk embarrassment in front of the rest of the team. Unfortunately, this increases the burden on the team because there’s no shared lore created and different team members may ask other team members the same question over and over again. Regardless of the application you use for chat, `we strongly recommend that your team have a convenient and accessible mechanism for group chat`.
	
* Using an Issue Tracker

	If you’re going to use an issue/bug tracker (and you should),it’s important that you have some sort of process in place for `processing and triaging bugs to encourage people to file and fix important bugs in a timely manner`. If your bug tracker is neglected and not prioritized, people will stop filing bugs and begin shouting complaints into the void; and when your team eventually digs into the bug tracker, more than likely they will be fixing unimportant bugs and ignoring important ones.
	
	Keep in mind that a bug tracker is really just a slightly specialized “Internet forum” or “bulletin board.” As such, it shares most properties in common with email lists and the same best practices apply. Hallway conversations about bugs should `be recorded as updates in the bug tracker, making thoughts and decisions “official” for all to see`. Keep the tone civil and don’t tolerate trollish behaviors.If conversations get overly long or fragmented, take the discussion temporarily to the main email list—an email client is a much better tool for complex threads.
	
* Communication as Part of Engineering

	* Code Comments
	
		Comments should be focused on `why` the code is doing what it’s doing, not `what` the code is doing.
		
		Take the time to come up with a commenting style for your team and have everyone stick to it—we think being consistent is more important than the actual choice.
		
	* Require Code Reviews for Every Commit
	
		Whether you review the code before committing it or after committing it, you should make sure every line of code that goes into your repository gets a second pair of eyes on it to check for style, quality, and, of course, careless mistakes. Keep code changes small and reviewable—changesets that are thousands of lines long are unreviewable for anything but formatting nits. This not only results in a higher-quality code base,but also goes a long way toward instilling a strong sense of group pride in the quality of your code.
		
	* Have Real Test and Release Processes
	
		The more automated tests you have for your product, the more confident you can be when you’re tearing through fixing bugs or adding new features. Once your team determines the role that testing will play, it should be part of the coding and review process. Just as importantly, your release process should be lightweight enough that you can do frequent releases (e.g., weekly), but thorough enough that you catch brokenness before it hits your users.
	
		
##It Really Is About the Code After All

We’ve found that building a strong, productive team culture and taking some time to pay attention to communication in the team creates a team that will spend more time writing and shipping code and less time arguing about what code to write.
		
Strong teams don’t arise spontaneously; they’re carefully seeded and cultivated by team leads and founders who understand the high `cost` of trying to write software with a dysfunctional team. Putting this work in from the outset helps to `create a self-selecting culture` that builds a team that will spend much more time designing and writing code than defining and defending their culture. A big side benefit of this effort—communication and process—is that it drastically `reduces the barrier to entry for newcomers` to your team.

While getting the right people on your team and the right values instilled in your team is important, the overwhelming majority of effort that goes into a culture turns out to be communication.Mission statements, meetings, mailing lists, online chat, code comments, documentation, and even decision-making processes all make up the many different ways your team communicates, both with itself and with others. It’s often a surprise to people that it takes so much communication—including emotional time and effort—to build a strong team for the sole purpose of writing code, but it’s true. `Code is ultimately about communications with people, not just with a machine`.	

#三.Every Boat Needs a Captain

##@Deprecated Manager

Managers frequently treated employees in the same way that cart drivers would treat their mules: they motivated them by alternately leading them forward with a carrot, and, when that didn’t work,whipping them with a stick. This `“carrot and stick”` method of management survived the transition from the factory to the modern office, where the stereotype of the hard-ass manager-as-mule-driver flourished in the middle part of the 20th century when employees would work at the same job for years and years (frequently relying on their pension as well).
This continues today in some industries—even in industries that require creative thinking and problem solving (like engineering!)—despite numerous studies suggesting that the anachronistic carrot and stick is ineffective and harmful to engineers’ productivity.While the assembly-line worker of years past could be trained in days and replaced at will, an engineer can take months to get up to speed on a new team. Unlike the mechanical efficiency of the assembly-line worker, `an engineer needs nurturing, time, and space to think and create`.
###“Leader” Is the New “Manager”
We think the term `manager` should be deprecated and the term `leader` should be used instead.The word `manager` has become a four-letter word—a rolewhose very existence encourages new managers to `manage` their `reports`.A leader forges the way for a team, looking out for their safety and well-being, all while making sure their needs are met.
`Traditional managers worry about how to get things done,while leaders worry about what things get done . . . (and trust their team to figure out how to do it).`
###The Only Thing to Fear Is . . . Well, Everything
If you’ve spent the majority of your career writing code, you typically end a day with something you can point to—whether it’s code, a design document, or a pile of bugs you just closed—and say,“That’s what I did today.” Based on this metric of productivity, at the end of a busy day of “management” you’ll usually find yourself thinking, `“I didn’t do a damned thing today.”`  Quantifying management work is more difficult than counting widgets you turned out, and you don’t have to take credit for your team’s work; however,making it possible `for them to be happy and productive is a big measure of your job`.
There are great reasons to consider becoming a manager: first, it’s a way to `scale yourself`. Even if you’re great at writing code, there’s still an upper limit to the amount of code you can write. Imagine `how much code a team of great engineers could write under your leadership`! Second, you might just be really good at it—many engineers who find themselves sucked into the leadership vacuum of a project discover that they’re exceptionally skilled at providing the kind of guidance, help, and air cover a team needs.
##The Servant Leader
The symptoms of the “management” disease include, but are by no means limited to, `micromanagement, ignoring low performers, and hiring pushovers`. Without prompt treatment, this disease can kill an entire team. One of the greatest urges of the newly minted manager is to actively “manage” her employees because that’s what a manager does. This typically has disastrous consequences.
The cure for the “management” disease is a liberal application of what we call `“servant leadership,”` which is a nice way of saying the most important thing a manager can do is to serve her team. As a servant leader, you should strive to `create an atmosphere of humility, respect, and trust (HRT)`. This may mean `removing bureaucratic obstacles` that an engineer can’t remove by herself, `helping a team achieve consensus`, or even buying dinner for the team when they’re working late at the office. The servant leader fills in the cracks to smooth the way for her team as well as advise them when necessary, but still isn’t afraid of `getting her hands dirty`. The only managing that a servant leader does is to `manage both the technical and social health of the team`; as tempting as it may be to focus purely on the technical health of the team, the social health of the team is just as important (but often infinitely harder to manage!).
###Antipatterns
1. Hire Pushovers.
	If you’re a manager and you’re feeling insecure in your role , one way to make sure no one questions your authority or threatens your job is to `hire people you can push around`. You can achieve this by hiring people who `aren’t as smart or ambitious` as you are, or just people who are more insecure than you. While this will cement your position as the team leader and decision maker, it will mean `a lot more work for you`. Your team won’t be able to make a move without you leading them like dogs on a leash. If you build a team of pushovers, you probably can’t take a vacation; the moment you leave the room, productivity comes to a screeching halt. 
	Instead, you should strive to hire people who are `smarter than you and can replace you`. This can be difficult because these very same people will `challenge you on a regular basis` (in addition to letting you know in no uncertain terms when you screw up). These very same engineers will also consistently `impress you and make great things happen`. They’ll be able to direct themselves to a much greater extent, and some will `be eager to lead the team` as well. You shouldn’t see this as an attempt to usurp your power, but rather as `an opportunity for you to lead an additional team, investigate new opportunities`, or even take a vacation without worrying about checking in on the team every day to make sure they’re getting their work done.
2. Ignore Low Performers.
	Sometimes you get to be the tooth fairy, other times you have to be the dentist.
	We’ve seen team leaders do all the right things to build incredibly strong teams, only to have these teams fail to excel (and eventually fall apart) because of just `one or two low performers`. We understand that the human aspect is the hardest part of writing software, but the hardest part of dealing with humans is handling someone who `isn’t meeting expectations`. Sometimes people miss expectations because they’re not working long enough or hard enough, but the most difficult cases are when someone just `isn’t capable of doing his job` no matter how long or hard he works.
	“Hope is not a strategy.” And nowhere is hope more overused as a strategy than in dealing with a low performer. Most team leaders grit their teeth, avert their eyes, and just `hope that the low performer either magically gets better or just goes away`. Yet it is extremely rare that this person does either.
	High performers on the team waste valuable time pulling the low performer along and team morale leaks away into the ether.

	Ignoring low performers is also a way to keep new high performers from joining your team, and a way to encourage existing high performers to leave.		The benefit of dealing with a low performer as quickly as possible is that you can put yourself in the position of `helping him up or out`.If you deal with a low performer right away, you’ll oftentimes find that he merely needs some encouragement or direction to slip into a higher state of productivity. 	How does one coach a low performer effectively?  It almost always requires `temporary micromanagement`—but still a whole `lot of HRT, particularly respect`. Set up a `specific time frame` (say, two or three months), and some very `specific goals` you expect him to achieve in that period. Make the goals small and incremental, so there’s an opportunity for lots of small successes. Meet with the engineer every week to `check on progress`, and be sure you set really explicit expectations around each upcoming milestone, so it’s easy to measure success or failure. If the low performer can’t keep up, it will become quite obvious to both of you early in the process. At this point, the person will often acknowledge that things aren’t going well and decide to quit; in other cases, determination will kick in and he’ll “up his game” to meet expectations. Either way, by working directly with the low performer you’re catalyzing important and necessary changes.
3. Ignore Human Issues.
	A team leader has two major areas of focus for his team: `the social and the technical`. It’s rather common for leaders to be stronger in the technical side, and since most leaders are promoted from a technical job, they tend to ignore human issues. It’s tempting to focus all your energy on the technical side of your team because, as an individual contributor, the vast majority of your time is spent solving technical problems. Now that you’re a leader, however, `you ignorethe human element of your team at your own peril`.
4. Be Everyone’s Friend.
	Don’t confuse friendship with leading with a soft touch: when you hold power over someone’s career, he may feel pressure to artificially reciprocate gestures of friendship.
	you can be a tough leader without tossing your existing friendships to the wind. We’ve found that `having lunch with your team` can be an effective way to stay socially connected to them without making them uncomfortable—this gives you a chance to have informal conversations outside the normal work environment.

5. Compromise the Hiring Bar.
	
	Steve Jobs once said: “`A people hire other A people; B people hire C people.`” It’s incredibly easy to fall victim to this adage, and even more so when trying to hire quickly.

	`The cost of finding the right person—whether by paying recruiters, paying advertising, or pounding the pavement for references—pales in comparison to the cost of dealing with an employee you never should have hired in the first place.` This “cost” manifests itself in `lost team productivity, team stress, time spent managing the employee up or out, and the paperwork and stress involved in firing the employee`.  If you still keep getting handed substandard engineers, maybe it’s time to look for another job. `Without the raw materials for a great team, you’re doomed`.
	
6. Treat Your Team Like Children.

	The best way to show your team you don’t trust them is to treat them like kids.You can manifest this behavior by `micromanaging` them or simply by being `disrespectful of their abilities` and giving them `no opportunity to be responsible` for their work.If you hire people worthy of trust and show these people you trust them, they’ll usually rise to the occasion .

###Leadership Patterns

1. Lose the Ego.

	This pattern is frequently misunderstood as encouraging leaders to be a doormat and let their team walk all over them, but that’s not the case at all. Humility is not the same as lacking confidence. You can still have `self-confidence and opinions without being an egomaniac`.Big personal egos are hard to handle on any team, especially in the team’s leader. Instead, you should work to cultivate a strong collective `team ego` and identity.
	
	Part of “losing the ego” is something we’ve covered already: `you need to trust your team`. That means `respecting the abilities and prior accomplishments` of the team members, even if they’re new to your team.

	If you’re not micromanaging your team, you can be pretty certain the folks working in the trenches know the details of their work better than you do. This means that while you may be the one `driving the team to consensus and helping to set the direction`, the `nuts and bolts of how to accomplish your goals are best decided by the people` who are putting the product together. This gives them not only a greater sense of `ownership`, but also a greater sense of `accountability and responsibility` for the success (or failure!) of their product. If you’ve got a good team and you let them set the bar for the quality and rate of their work, they’ll accomplish more than they would by you standing over them with a carrot and a stick.
	
	Many engineers new to a leadership role feel an enormous responsibility to get everything right, to know everything, and to have all the answers. We can assure you that you `will not get everything right, nor will you have all the answers`, and if you act like you do, you’ll quickly lose the respect of your team. A lot of this comes down to having a basic sense of security in your role. Try to `appreciate inquiry`: when someone questions a decision or statement you made, remember that this person is usually just trying to better understand you. If you encourage inquiry, you’re much more likely to get the kind of constructive criticism that will make you a better leader of a better team. Finding people who will give you good constructive criticism is incredibly difficult, and it’s even harder to get this kind of criticism from people who “work for you.” Think about the `big picture` of what you’re trying to accomplish as a team, and `accept feedback and criticism openly`; avoid the urge to be territorial.
	
	The last part of losing the ego is a simple one, but many engineers would rather be boiled in oil than do it: `apologize when you makea mistake`.  You are absolutely going to make mistakes, and whether you admit it or not your team is going to know you’ve made a mistake. They’ll know regardless of whether they talk to you or not (and one thing is guaranteed: they will talk about it with one another). Apologizing doesn’t cost money. People have enormous respect for leaders who apologize when they screw up, and contrary to popular belief it doesn’t make you vulnerable. In fact, you’ll usually gain respect from people when you apologize, because apologizing tells people you are `level-headed, good at assessing situations, and—coming back to HRT—humble`.
2. Be a Zen Master.
	As an engineer, you likely developed an excellent sense of skepticism and cynicism, but this can be a liability when you’re trying to lead a team. That’s not to say you should be naïvely optimistic at every turn, but you would do well to be `less vocally skeptical while still letting your team know you’re aware of the intricacies and obstacles` involved in your work. `Mediating your reactions and maintaining your calm` is more important as you lead more people, because your team will (both unconsciously and consciously) look to you for clues on how to act and react to whatever is going on around you.

	This brings us to another `Zen management trick: asking questions`.The engineer asking for advice typically doesn’t want you to solve his problem, but rather to `help him solve it`, and the easiest way to do this is to ask him questions.  you can apply some HRT and try to help him solve the problem on his own by trying to `refine and explore` his problem. This will usually lead the engineer to the answer, and it will be his answer, which leads back to the ownership and responsibility we went over earlier in this chapter. Whether you have the answer or not, using this technique will almost always leave the engineer with the impression that you did. 
	
3. Be a Catalyst.

	One of the ways in which catalysts work (e.g., enzymes) is to `bring reactants into close proximity`: instead of bouncing around randomly in a solution, the reactants are much more likely to favorably interact with one another when the catalyst helps bring them together. This is a role you’ll often need to play as a leader, and there are a number of ways you can go about it.
	
	One of the most common things a team leader does is to `build consensus`. This may mean you drive the process from start to finish, or you just give it a gentle push in the right direction to speed it up.  If your team is looking to move quickly, sometimes they’ll voluntarily concede authority and direction to one or more team leads. While this might look like a dictatorship or oligarchy, when it’s done voluntarily it’s a form of consensus.
	
	Sometimes your team already has consensus about what you need to do, but they hit a roadblock and get stuck. This could be a technical or organizational roadblock, but jumping in to `help the team get moving again` is a common leadership technique. There are some roadblocks that, while virtually impossible for your team members to get past, will be easy for you to handle, and helping your team to understand that you’re glad (and able) to help out with these roadblocks is valuable.
	
	You don’t have to know all the answers to help remove roadblocks, but it usually helps to know the people who do. In many cases, `knowing the right people is more valuable than knowing the right answer`.
	
	Another way to catalyze your team is to make them `feel safe and secure so that they can take greater risks`. Risk is a fascinating thing—most humans are terrible at evaluating risk, and most companies try to avoid risk at all costs. If you try to achieve an impossible goal, there’s a good chance you’ll fail,but if you fail trying to achieve the impossible, you’ll most likely accomplish way more than you would have accomplished had you merely attempted something you knew you could complete. A good way to build a culture where risk taking is accepted is to let your team `know it’s OK to fail`.

	In fact, we like to think of `failure as a way of learning a lot really quickly`, providing that you’re not repeatedly failing at the same thing. In addition, it’s important to see `failure as an opportunity to learn` and not to point fingers or assign blame. `Failing fast is good`, because there’s not a lot at stake. This postmortem procedure is a way to `document the events that led to the actual failure and to develop a series of steps that will prevent it from happening in the future`. This is not an opportunity to point fingers, nor is it intended to introduce unnecessary bureaucratic checks, but rather to `focus strongly on the core of the problem and fix it once and for all`. It’s very difficult, but quite effective (and cathartic!).

	It’s OK to fail, but `fail as a team` and learn from your failures. If an individual succeeds, `praise him in front of the team`. If an individual fails, give `constructive criticism in private`.Whatever the case, take advantage of the opportunity and apply a liberal helping of HRT to help your team to learn from their failures.
	
4. Be a Teacher and a Mentor.

	`Teaching team members and giving them a chance to learn on their own` can be incredibly difficult at first, but it’s a vital component of effective leadership. This is especially important for new hires who, in addition to learning your team’s technology and code base, are learning your team’s culture and the appropriate level of responsibility to assume.

	It doesn’t take a lot of formal education or preparation to be a mentor; in fact, you primarily need three things: `experience with your team’s processes and systems, the ability to explain things to someone else, and the ability to gauge how much help your mentee needs`. 
	
5. Set Clear Goals.

	If you’re going to get your team moving rapidly in one direction, you need to make sure they all understand and agree on what the direction is.

	The easiest way to set a clear goal and get your team pulling the product in the same direction is to create a `concise mission statement` for the team. Onceyou’ve helped the team define their direction and goals, you can `step back and give them more autonomy`, `periodically checking` into make sure they’re still on the right track.This not only frees up your time to handle other leadership tasks, but it also `drastically increases the efficiency of your team`.6. Be Honest.

	This doesn’t mean we’re assuming you are lying to your team, but it merits a mention because you’ll inevitably find yourself in a position where you `can’t tell your team something` or, even worse, you have to `tell them something they don’t want to hear`.
	
	If a team member approaches you about something you can’t share with him, `it’s OK to just tell him you know the answer but can’t tell him`. Even more common is when a team member asks you something you don’t know the answer to: `you can tell him you don’t know`.
	
	Giving `hard feedback` is . . . well, hard. The first time you have to tell one of your engineers he made a mistake or didn’t do his job as well as was expected of him can be incredibly stressful.We strongly advise `against using the compliment sandwich`.It’s possible to employ HRT here: `be kind and empathetic when delivering constructive criticism` without resorting to the compliment sandwich. In fact, kindness and empathy are critical if you want the recipient to hear the criticism and not immediately go on the defensive.
	When providing direct feedback or criticism, your delivery is key to `making sure your message is heard and not deflected`. If you put the recipient on the defensive, he’s not going to be thinking of how he can change, but rather how he can argue with you to show you you’re wrong.
7. Track Happiness.
	As a leader, one way to make your team more productive (and less likely to leave) in the long term is to take some time to `gauge the team’s happiness`. The best leaders we’ve worked with have all been amateur psychologists, looking in on their team members’ welfare from time to time, making sure they `get recognition for what they do`, and trying to make certain they are `happy with their work`.
	One of the most valuable tools in tracking your team’s happiness is, at the end of each one-on-one meeting, to ask the team member, `“What do you need?”` This simple question is a great way to wrap up and make sure each team member has what he needs to be productive and happy, although you may need to carefully probe a bit to get details.If you ask this every time you have a one-onone, you’ll find that eventually your team will remember this and sometimes even come to you with a laundry list of things they need to make their job better.

	It can also be worthwhile to pay some attention to your team’s `happiness outside the office`. `Be wary of assuming that people have no life outside of work—having unrealistic expectations about the amount of time people can put into their work will cause people to lose respect for you, or worse, to burn out`. We’re not advocating that you pry into your team members’ personal lives, but being sensitive to personal situations that your team members are going through can give you a lot of insight into why they may be more or less productive at any given time. Giving a little extra slack to a team member who is having a tough time at home now can make him a lot more willing to put in longer hours when your team has a tight deadline to hit later.		A big part of tracking your team members’ happiness is `tracking their careers`.There are usually a few things that every engineer would like to do in the next five years: `get promoted, learn something new, launch something important, and work with smart people`. If you’re going to be an effective leader, you should be thinking about how you can help make all those things happen and let your team know you’re thinking about this. The most important part of this is to `take these implicit goals and make them explicit` so that when you’re giving career advice you have a real set of metrics on which to evaluate situations and opportunities.	Tracking happiness comes down to not just monitoring careers,but also giving your team members `opportunities to improve themselves`, `get recognized for the work they do`, and `have a little fun` along the way.
8. Other Tips and Tricks.
	* Delegate, but get your hands dirty.
		If you’re new to a leadership role, you probably need to work hard to `delegate work to other engineers` on your team, even if it will take them a lot longer than you to accomplish that work. Not only is this one way for you to `maintain your sanity`, but also it’s how `the rest of your team will learn`. If you’ve been leading teams for a while or if you pick up a new team, one of the easiest ways to `gain the team’s respect and get up to speed on what they’re doing` is to get your hands dirty—usually by `taking on a grungy task no one else wants to do`. You can have a résumé and a list of achievements a mile long, but nothing lets a team know how skillful and dedicated (and humble) you are like jumping in and actually doing some hard work.
	* Seek to replace yourself.
		This starts, as we mentioned earlier, with the hiring process: if you want a member of your team to replace you, you need to hire people capable of replacing you, which we usually sum up by saying you need to `“hire people smarter than you.”` Once you have the engineers capable of doing your job, you need to `give them opportunities to take on more responsibilities or occasionally lead the team`. If you do this, you’ll quickly see which engineers have the most aptitude to lead as well as which engineers want to lead the team.
	* Know when to make waves.
		You will (inevitably and frequently) have difficult situations crop up where every cell in your body is screaming at you to do nothing about it.It may be the engineer on your team whose `technical chops aren’t up to par`. It may be the engineer who `jumps in front of every train`. These are the situations whereyou need to `make the biggest waves and you need to make them now`. Rarely will these problems work themselves out, and the longer you wait to address them, the more they’ll adversely affect the rest of the team and the more they’ll keep you up at night thinking about them. By waiting, you’re only delaying the inevitable and causing untold damage in the process. So `act, and act quickly`.
	* Shield your team from chaos.
		When you step into a leadership role, the first thing you’ll usually discover is that `outside your team is a world of chaos and uncertainty (or even insanity)` that you never saw when you were an individual contributor.
	* Give your team air cover.
		While it’s important that you `keep your team informed about what’s going on “above” them in the company`, it’s just as important that you defend them from a lot of the uncertainty and frivolous demands that may be imposed upon you from outside your team. Share as much information as you can with your team, but don’t distract them with organizational craziness that is extremely unlikely to ever actually affect them.		
	* Let your team know when they’re doing well.
		Just as you let someone know when he screws up, be sure to let him know when he does well, and be sure to let him (and the rest of the team) know when he knocks one out of the park.
##People Are Like Plants

Engineers are like plants: some need more light, and some need more water (and some need more bullshit, er, fertilizer). It’s your job as their leader to figure out which engineers need what and to then give it to them.

Instead of water and sunlight, you need to provide engineers with a combination of `motivation` and `direction` to make them happy and productive.

Giving direction is fairly straightforward—it requires `a basic understanding of what needs to be done, some simple organizational skills, and enough coordination to break it down into manageable tasks`. With those tools in hand you can provide enough guidance for an engineer in need of directional help. Motivation,however, is a bit more sophisticated and merits some explanation.

###Intrinsic Versus Extrinsic Motivation

There are two types of motivation: `extrinsic`, which originates from outside forces (such as monetary compensation), and `intrinsic`, which comes from within.In his book Drive,Dan Pink claims you can increase intrinsic motivation by giving people three things:`autonomy, mastery, and purpose`.

An engineer has `autonomy` when she has the ability to `act on her own without someone micromanaging` her. With autonomous engineers, you might give them the general direction in which they need to take the product, but leave it up to them to decide how to get there. This helps with motivation not only because they have `a closer relationship` with the product (and likely `know better` than you how to build it), but also because it gives them a much `greater sense of ownership` of the product. The bigger their stake is in the success of the product, the greater their interest is in seeing it succeed.`Mastery` in its basest form simply means you need to give an engineer the `opportunity to learn new skills and improve existing skills`. Giving ample opportunities for mastery not only helps to motivate engineers, but also makes them better engineers over time, which makes for stronger teams. Ample opportunities for engineers to learn new things and master their craft will `keep them sharp, efficient, and effective`.
All the autonomy and mastery in the world isn’t going to help motivate someone if he’s doing work for no reason at all, which is why you need to `give his work purpose.`If you can help them to see this purpose in their work, you’ll see a tremendous increase in their motivation and productivity.One manager we know keeps a close eye on the email feedback the company gets for its product (one of the “smaller-impact” products), and whenever he sees a message from a customer talking about how the company’s product has helped the customer personally or helped the customer’s business, he immediately forwards it to the engineering team. This not only motivates the team, but also frequently `inspires them to think about ways they can make their product even better`.
#四.Dealing with Poisonous People
##Defining “Poisonous”
If you’re trying to build a highly efficient, fast-moving team, it’s important to focus on what you `don’t want`. While brilliant engineers can make your team faster and more efficient, certain `antibehaviors` can make your team slower and less efficient, and make your company a less comfortable place to work—and eventually erode the bonds that hold the team together.

The term poisonous person is a `nasty label` and automatically creates a dividing line between “us” (the good guys) and “them” (those nasty jerks). There’s a betterway to think about the problem. Instead of running your team as an elite fraternity with a mission to repel mean people, it’s healthier to create a culture that simply `refuses to tolerate certain negative behaviors`. It’s the behaviors you want to filter out, not particular individuals.
##Fortifying Your Team
Poisonous people are a `direct threat` to your highfunctioning team. If you allow bad behaviors to persist, not only does your productivity decrease, but also you may find your culture slowly changing for the worse. The best defense is to fortify your culture through a strong set of best practices and procedures. We covered them in Chapter 2, but here’s a quick refresher:* Have a visible mission statement, to keep you focused on both your goals and nongoals.* Establish proper etiquette around email discussions. Keep archives, get newcomers to read them, and prevent filibustering by noisy minorities.* Document all history: not just code history, but also design decisions, important bug fixes, and prior mistakes.* Collaborate effectively. Use version control, keep code changes small and reviewable, and spread the “bus factor” around to prevent territoriality.* Have clear policies and procedures around fixing bugs, testing, and releasing software.* Streamline the barrier to entry for newcomers.* Rely on consensus-based decisions, but also have a process for resolving conflicts when consensus can’t be reached.

The more ingrained these best practices are,the more intolerant of poisonous behavior your community will be.

##Identifying the Threat

What’s specifically at risk is your team’s `attention and focus`.

`Attention and focus are the scarcest resources` you have. If you don’t actively protect these things, it’s easy for poisonous people to disrupt your team’s flow. Your team ends up bickering, distracted, and emotionally drained. Everyone ends up spending all their attention and focus on things other than writing great software.

What does a poisonous person look like? To defend yourself, you need to know what to look out for.

* Not Respecting Other People’s Time

	There are certain people out there who simply are unable to figure out what’s going on in a project. Rather than spending a few minutes of their own time reading fundamental project documentation, mission statements, FAQs, or the latest email discussion threads, they repeatedly distract the entire team with questions about things they could easily figure out on their own.

* Ego

	Perhaps ego isn’t the perfect word here, but we’re using the term to describe anyone who is `incapable of accepting a consensus decision, incapable of listening to or respecting other points of view, and incapable of reaching compromises`.

* Overentitlement

	Anytime you have a visitor who `demands that something be done`, your alarm should go off. The person puts all her energy into `complaining about the inadequacies` of the software, but is `unwilling to directly contribute` in any way.
	
* Immature or Confusing Communication

* Paranoia

	Sometimes an inappropriate sense of entitlement leads directly into open hostility toward a project. Many times we see it escalate into complete paranoia.When an existing team disagrees with the visitor, the poisonous person will sometimes start to throw accusations of a “cabal” and conspiracy.The recommendation here is to not even bother responding to such charges.
	
* Perfectionism

	On the surface, perfectionists don’t seem dangerous at all. Sure, there may be a touch of odd obsessive-compulsive behavior now and then, but usually the person is humble, polite, respectful, and a good listener. He seems stuffed full of happy HRT and good intentions. What’s the problem, then? The problem is the threat of `paralysis`.

##Repelling the Poison

Bad behaviors will not be tolerated. If, after repeated warnings, the behavior doesn’t change, only then does it makes sense to consider formal rejection.

Concentrating your effort on removing toxic behavior is often enough to turn an intelligent (although perhaps socially awkward) person into a productive member of your team.

* Redirect the Energy of Perfectionists

	Once a good-enough solution is found for the original problem,point the perfectionist to a different problem that still needs attention.

	There’s an old saying to `not let “the perfect be the enemy of the good,”` and in your quest to create a high-performing team, you need to be just as vigilant about avoiding perfectionism as you are about calling out more obvious disruptive behaviors.

	This trick of redirecting energy also works on the overly entitled people who spend more time complaining and criticizing than helping out.Try getting him to take an interest in formally testing the software and pointing out regressions. It allows him to keep complaining, but in a useful way.
	
* Don’t Feed the Energy Creature

	This works best against deliberate trolls—people who are purposely trying to get a rise out of you or your team.The `simple silent treatment often works best`. When the person realizes nobody’s paying attention, he typically loses interest and just leaves. Note that it often takes quite a bit of willpower to not respond. Stay strong!
	
* Don’t Get Overly Emotional

	When somebody accuses you of making a bad design decision or of conspiracy, or simply wastes your time by asking too many questions whose answers are obvious, it’s easy to get upset.Remember that your job is to write great software, not to appease every visitor or repeatedly justify your existence.`Choose your battles carefully and keep calm`. Carefully decide who’s worth replying to, and who you’ll let be.

* Look for Facts in the Bile

	Continuing on with the theme of staying clear of too much emotion, a corollary is to `actively look for facts`. If someone is complaining, listen carefully. Always start by giving the person the benefit of the doubt, despite the angry or rude language. `Does the person have a real point? Is there something to learn from the person’s experience, or is there an idea worth responding to?` Very often the answer is “yes”—that despite a poisonous person’s vitriolic prose, some wisdom really is buried in there. Always `bring the argument back to a technical discussion`.

* Repel Trolls with Niceness

	Sometimes it’s possible to scare people away just by being too kind!

* Know When to Give Up

	Sometimes no matter how hard you try, you simply need to flip the bozo bit and move on.

* Focus on the Long Term

	If there’s a common theme in dealing with the distraction of poisonous people, it’s that it’s all too easy to get caught up in the immediate drama of a situation. If you’re witnessing what you think may be poisonous behavior, you need to ask yourself two critical questions:
	
	* Despite the short-term loss of your team’s attention and focus, `do you truly believe the project will still benefit in the long run?`
	* Do you believe the conflict will ultimately `resolve itself in a useful way?`
	
	If your answer to either of these questions is “no,” you need to intervene to stop the behavior as soon as possible.Somebody may be a great technical contributor but still exhibit poisonous behavior.There’s a temptation to turn a blind eye to the behavior in order to benefit from the technical advancement. But be careful! `A strong culture based on HRT is irreplaceable, while technical contributions are definitely replaceable`.
	
	To be totally explicit: `it’s not worth compromising your culture for the short-term gains`—particularly if it’s about a brilliant contributor who doesn’t acknowledge the importance of HRT.
	
#五.The Art of Organizational Manipulation

##The Ideal: How a Team Ought to Function Within a Company

There are two levels of a properly functioning company: `your manager`, who you’ll deal with most of the time, and `the corporation beyond your manager`, which includes engineers, middle managers, executives, salespeople, lawyers, and so on.

###Your Life Under an Ideal Manager

`Pursue extra responsibility` as you’re getting your work done.The `proactive, responsibility-seeking` behavior reduces your manager’s workload because she has one less thing to worry about, and it shows that you’re `capable of doing work beyond your current level`. This also means you’ll `likely have to leave your comfort zone and try new things`, and that’s OK if you’re on a team where you’re encouraged to take risks and fail fast.

`Take risks and don’t fear failure.`In the presence of an enlightened manager, failing is a great way to learn quickly, discover the limits of what you can and can’t do, and grow those limits over time.If you don’t fail at least once a year, you’re not taking enough risks. And like the pursuit of extra responsibility, taking risks is a way to show you’re capable of bigger things.If you don’t take risks in your work, you’ll have fewer failures, but you’ll have fewer big successes as well. A good manager wants a team that’s willing to push the envelope to see what they can and can’t do (and to learn a lot in the process), and she’ll provide a soft landing for when you fail. When you fail, take responsibility, don’t seek to assign blame, and document what happened and what you can do to avoid that same failure again. Lather, rinse, repeat.

`Act like an adult.`you are responsible for teaching people how to act and how to treat you. Bad managers will frequently train their teams to act like children by squashing any initiative, responsibility, or rule breaking. If you’ve had one of these managers, you often come to expect this sort of treatment from all managers.

`Question things` that you’re unsure about. If your manager makes a decision that you disagree with, don’t be afraid to argue with her or question the premise upon which she made the decision. While this isn’t a license to be an obstacle, being a “yes-man” isn’t helpful to someone in a leadership position if you’ve got information or experience that she lacks.

`Your manager is not clairvoyant`: only rarely will you find a person in an organization who overcommunicates, so don’t hesitate to update your team’s leader on what you’re doing before she asks you what’s going on. Drop her a quick note when you hit an obstacle, score a victory, need something, or expect something.
	
##The Reality: When Your Environment Is an Obstacle to Your Success

There are innumerable ways in which the environment in your company can work to prevent you from succeeding, but they can usually be divided into two major categories: `bad people` and `bad organizations`.

###Your Life Under a Bad Manager

`Fear of failure` is one of the most common traits of bad managers. This insecurity tends to make them very `conservative`, which is antithetical to the work style of the typical engineer. If your manager `doesn’t want you to take risks`, there is little opportunity for you to inject your own ideas into your product and you’ll usually wind up implementing (by rote) the product that someone else designed.

Oftentimes the insecure manager will insist on `inserting herself into any interaction you have with people outside your team`, thereby preventing you from speaking directly to other teams without “going through the chain of command.” This kind of manager will consider any direct contact you make with engineers outside your team or—heaven forfend—another manager, to be akin to mutiny or insubordination. If you need anything outside your team or their organization, this manager expects you to go through her, which allows her to `elevate her importance and subordinate you, thus giving her more power`.

###The Office Politician

We advise that you `steer clear of the office politician`: route around him where possible, but don’t carelessly badmouth him to other people above him in the organization, because it’s quite difficult to know who he has hoodwinked and who is wise to him.If you don’t `put energy into getting promoted` because you don’t want to “play the game,” you may find that the office politician gets promoted over you, in which case you’ve now got a bad manager and an office politician.

###The Bad Organization

As companies grow, they develop bureaucracy and processes in an effort to manage profit, reduce risk, increase predictability, and support the massive weight of the organization itself.Over time, this bureaucracy can grow to a point where it prevents the company from succeeding.
It’s a simple fact that most companies are not engineering-focused.That is to say: `engineers are a means to accomplish business goals that are typically not technical`. This means the people running the company probably don’t understand the technical underpinnings of their system, just the demands set upon them by the business, and so they wind up `creating unrealistic demands on engineering`.Typically you’ll see this directly in the form of `unrealistic deadlines` and `lack of qualified technical people` to get projects completed on time. You may have `difficulty acquiring enough hardware` to effectively run your product, or find your team spending weeks rewriting something when a hardware purchase costing only a few hundred dollars would have done the job. This is unfortunately typical of a company that doesn’t value engineers and treats them like slaves, giving them no voice in how the company operates.
The most egregiously bad organizations have ossified command and control structures that resemble fiefdoms.
Other companies are filled with people who are `obsessed with titles and organizational hierarchy`. This results in endless power struggles, with managers often `preventing engineers from transferring to another team` in order to protect their own team from losing a valuable contributor—even when the right thing to do for both the company and the engineer is to let the transfer happen.
Has your company ever `treated you like a naughty child`? Are you `unable to get to innocuous external websites` due to an overzealous company firewall? Do you have to carefully `account for every moment of your day with a detailed timecard`? Some organizations will even go so far as to `measure your productivity by meaningless  methods` such as the number of lines of code you write every week.Still other organizations will breed employees who judge their success not by the number and quality of products they ship, but by `the number of meetings` they’re invited to attend.
Lastly, your company might `lack important things like focus, vision,or direction`. This is often the result of too many masters, or “design by committee,” which results in conflicting orders being sent down to the rank and file. So you wind up moving in ever-tighter circles instead of in a coherent direction.

##Manipulating Your Organization

Companies are made of rules: some of them can be bent, and others can be broken. Acknowledge the way things are, and focus on navigating your organization’s structure to `find the mechanisms you can use to get things done` and to `carve out a happy place for yourself` in your company. Whether you’re in a good organization or a bad one, there are a number of strategies that we’ve found to be quite effective at getting things done.

* “It’s Easier to Ask for Forgiveness Than Permission”

	It’s important to `know what you can get away with in your organization without explicitly getting approval` from one of your superiors, but wherever possible, we advise you to do what you think is right for the company.
	
	Even if you’re prepared to beg for forgiveness, `choose your battles wisely`.Be strategic and fight for things either that `matter` or that you’re `pretty sure` you have some chance of winning. Blowing all your capital on a battle you know you can’t win is pointless, stressful, and career limiting for no good reason.
	
	If you do decide to go the “beg for forgiveness” route, it’s useful to `have colleagues and friends in your company that you can use as a sounding board for your ideas`—especially your riskier ideas.These people should have a good sense of what you can and can’t get away with in the company as well as which ideas just won’t fly.
	
* If You Can’t Take the Path, Make the Path

	Another strategy for making change in a company is to `find ways to get your ideas accepted at a grassroots level`. If you can get enough people to buy into your idea or use a particular product, it will often be too late for the bureaucracy to squash you, and management will be forced to notice and either accept it or act against it.	

	Ideas in particular are fascinating things: `they can go a long way if you don’t care who gets the credit`! Sometimes you’ll find that people will spread an idea only if they can take credit for the idea as their own.Despite the fact that it may pain you to hear your words coming out of another  person’s mouth, it’s often the only way for an idea to travel.Think about the broad audience that your idea—which would otherwise go unheard—can reach in this case!
	
	Just as with individuals, eliminating bad habits in a company is difficult.It’s impossible to simply stop a bad habit; you need to `replace it with a good habit`.Don’t like a certain weekly meeting? Replace it with a different kind of meeting or alternate (more effective) ritual. Don’t like a useless reporting process? Don’t complain about it; write a useful one that’s too compelling to ignore.
	
* Learn to Manage Upward

	Whether you’re a manager or an individual contributor, you need to spend some of your time managing upward. By this we mean you need to try to ensure that both your manager and the people outside your team are not only aware of what you’re doing, but are `aware that you’re doing it well`. Some engineers find this mode of `“selling yourself”` distasteful, and it may remain so, but the benefits of doing this are huge.

	We’re not advocating that you sandbag all your estimates and pad out your deadlines, but wherever you can, try to `avoid promising things that you can’t deliver`, even if it means saying “no” more often than you’d like. If you constantly miss deadlines or drop features, other people in the company will have less of a reason to trust you and will most likely pass over you when they’re looking for someone to get something done.
	
	As an engineer, try to `focus your energies on launching products over just about everything else`. Shipping things gives you `credibility, reputation, and political capital` more than just about anything else in a company. Launching your product is a `high-visibility event` that shows you’re accomplishing something.If you dedicate more than half of your time to the `defensive work`, it’s hardly valued at all and you’ll find yourself in the somewhat embarrassing position of having nothing (politically) important to show for your time.
	
	`“Offensive” Versus “Defensive” Work.` Offensive work is typically effort toward `new user-visible features`—shiny things that are easy to show outsiders and get them excited about, or things that `noticeably advance the sexiness of a product` (e.g., `improved UI, speed, or interoperability`).Defensive work is effort aimed at the `long-term health` of a product (e.g., `code refactoring, feature rewrites, schema changes, data migration, or improved emergency monitoring`). Defensive activities make the product more maintainable, stable, and reliable. And yet, despite the fact that they’re absolutely critical, you get `no political credit` for doing them. If you spend all your time on them, people perceive your product as holding still. And to make wordplay on an old maxim: “Perception is nine-tenths of the law.”`A team should never spend more than one-third to one-half of its time and energy on defensive work`, no matter how much technical debt there is. Any more time spent is a recipe for political suicide.
	
* Luck and the Favor Economy

	Lucky people “are `skilled at creating and noticing chance opportunities.`” We think the same tenet applies to creating opportunities in companies: if you perform your job to the letter of the law and focus only on getting your own work done to the exclusion of all else, there will be few chance opportunities for you. If you `help others get their jobs done when given the chance`, even when it’s not part of your job, there’s no guarantee that they’ll return the favor, but many people will gladly repay the favor in the future if given the chance.
	
	Every company has this sort of `gray-market favor economy` that lives outside the org chart.There’s usually something you can quickly and easily do that benefits your company but is someone else’s job, and if you keep your eyes open for the chance to do these things, you `earn a bit of credit` in this favor economy.Think of these credits as a series of small bets: `some will never pay you back, others will pay even money, and still others will pay enormous dividends`.Even if you never get “paid back” you’ll often `learn something new` in the process of helping someone, and it feels good to help other people, so what do you have to lose other than a little time and effort?
	
	One of the most interesting things about the favor economy is that `your account doesn’t just empty out when you leave a job or a company`—you’ll frequently be able to call on folks at your company for a hand even after you’ve left.The tech industry is a lot smaller than you think, and people talk more than you think, so the guy you stick it to today might very well be the person who kills your job application 10 years from now.
	
* Get Promoted to a Position of Safety

	In most companies you need to put some amount of effort into `“playing the promotion game”` to get yourself promoted(usually in addition to excelling at your job).
	
	The higher in the organization you can get (either as an individual contributor or as a manager), the `more control` you’ll have over your destiny inside the company. Putting a modicum of effort toward getting promoted when you’re comfortable in your position is a great way to `invest in your security and happiness` when something bad happens to your company or team. `Keep track of your accomplishments and use them in your self-assessment`. Update your résumé and share it with your manager or promotion committee.`Read up on the promotion process` and talk to your manager about what boxes you need to tick off to get promoted, and methodically work to tick off every box. Even if getting promoted is subjective and nondeterministic, there’s a lot you can do to increase the odds in your favor.
	
* Seek Powerful Friends

	Every company has a `“shadow” org chart` that is unwritten but through which power and influence flow. There are only a few different types of people who make up the nodes in this graph:
	
	`Connectors` are people who know people in every corner of the organization, and if they don’t know someone on a team, they can find the right person for you. Sometimes getting something done is just a matter of finding the right person to speak to, and the connector can help you find that person.

	`Old-timers` may not have a high rank or fancy title, but they typically carry a lot of institutional knowledge and wield a lot of influence just because they’ve been around for a long time. These are great people to go to when you’re trying to understand why the organization works in a certain way, or if you need a supporter that a lot of people respect.
	
	`Administrative assistants` wield an enormous amount of power and influence in an organization because they are agents of the executives they work for. More importantly, they usually do an incredible amount of work to keep things running smoothly, so anger them at your own (and your career’s) peril. And never pass up a chance to be nice to an administrative assistant.

	One thing to note about all of these people is that, despite all the advances in social media and videoconferencing technology, nothing even comes close to `the bandwidth and the intimacy of being face to face with someone else in real life`.If you have an important meeting with someone in your company and you have the budget to be there in person, it’s almost always worth the hassle of traveling. The impact of an `in-person discussion etches itself into memory` in ways that phone or video chats can’t compete with.
	
	`You.` It’s always `easier to manipulate your organization when you’re higher on the org chart`, so even if you’re happy with your salary and current job, it’s worth it to keep working toward your next promotion, even if you’re working at the ideal company. Remember: if everything goes to hell, you’re going to be in a much better place to survive unscathed if you’re at the top looking down.

* How to Ask a Busy Executive for Anything . . . via Email
	
	`“Three Bullets and a Call to Action”` technique, and it will drastically increase your chances of getting action—or at the very least, a response—from just about anyone you email out of the blue asking for something,not just an executive.
	
	A good Three Bullets and a Call to Action email contains (at most) `three bullet points detailing the issue at hand`, and `one—and only one—call to action`. That’s it—nothing more. You need an email that can be easily forwarded along.The bullet points should be `short sentences` (each one should fit onto a single line without wrapping), and the call to action should be as short as possible.Your email should be loaded with HRT: `polite, respectful, and devoid of grammar mistakes and spelling errors`.If you positively cannot help yourself and simply must include more background or information, put it at the very end of your email (even after your signature), and label it clearly as “More details” or “Background.”
	
##Plan B:Get Out

If you can’t change the system, there’s no point in continuing to put energy into changing it. Instead, `put energy into leaving it`: update your résumé, and start asking your close friends if they know of any openings for you at other companies. Train yourself in new things. One of the great things about being an engineer in this day and age is that good engineers are in high demand, and that gives you the ability to control your own future.

Once you realize you have this control, it’s incredibly liberating.If you poke around and discover that you have other job options available to you, you may discover that you suddenly get a lot more things done at your work (under a lot less stress) because it’s not the end of the world if your current employer fires you!

Do the right thing, wait to get fired.

#六.Users Are People,Too

“Good software” is an overly narrow definition of success. If you’re trying to pay the bills you also need a lot of other people to use your software and be happy with it. The software development process doesn’t end with throwing a product over a wall; it never ends, in fact. People use your software and you need to react to them, improving the product over time. If you don’t learn how to master this feedback loop your software will die.

We’ll examine three general phases of user engagement in this chapter. First you need to `get users to notice your software`—are they even aware that it exists? How do they perceive it before they walk in the door? Then you’ll need to think about `what people experience when they start using your software`. Does it meet their expectations? Is it usable? Does it empower them to do great things? Finally, we’ll look at `how to interact productively with them` once they’re firmly engaged with your creation. All of these interactions are part of the cyclical nature of software development.

##Managing Public Perception

Programmers tend to have an overdeveloped sense of logic, but most humans are driven equally by `logic and emotion`. The marketing folks are masters of emotional manipulation, and that’s why they’re so effective: they mix the facts with feelings to get attention. If you want to get new people to use your software, you have to `care about their emotional perception` of your software. You cannot change the way people make decisions.

* Pay Attention to First Impressions

	What is your software like to a `newbie`? Is it `welcoming` and does it `encourage exploration`? Conversely, for an `expert` who sits down to an initial session with your software, does it appear `familiar and sensible`? At first glance, does your app scream `instant productivity`,or steep learning curve and countless tears? More specifically,what does a user experience in the first 30 seconds after launching your software? Don’t just give an intellectual answer (“she sees a menu of choices, with a login box”) but give an `emotional answer` too. How does a new user feel after a minute? `Empowered or just confused`? What can you do to improve that feeling? Step back a level and look at your product’s website. Does it seem `professional and inviting`, like a good storefront? You need to take these things seriously for your software to be taken seriously.
	
* Underpromise and Overdeliver

	Don’t let your marketing people preempt you here. If users ask about upcoming features or release timelines, take the opportunity to give overly conservative estimates.

* Work with Industry Analysts Respectfully

	A good (or bad) review can make or break a product’s perception. Engineers tend to resent this sort of power and deference, though.Passive-aggressively fighting the system—no matter how irritating it is—just doesn’t make sense.Should the reviewer get preferential treatment? Probably not. But is it worth sticking it to him as a matter of principle? Probably not. You’re only hurting yourself in the process. Choose your battles carefully.
	
##How Usable Is Your Software?

You, as an engineer, are a terrible evaluator of your software’s usability. An interface that seems totally reasonable to you may very likely make your nontechie neighbor pull out her hair in frustration.

Focus on the user, and all else will follow.

* Choose Your Audience

	First things first: imagine your users fall across a spectrum of technical competence.

* Consider Barrier to Entry

	Now think about the `first-time` users of your software. How hard is it to get going for the first time? If your users can’t easily try it out, you won’t have any. A first-time user usually isn’t thinking about whether your software is more or less powerful than a competitor’s;she just wants to get something done.Quickly.

	The first time your software runs, `don’t` present the user with a giant form to fill out or a giant panel of mandatory preferences to set.Forcing the user to create some sort of new account is pretty offputting as well; it implies long-term commitment before the user has even done anything. All these things send the user screaming in the other direction.
	
	If your product is a web application, make sure it `loads quickly`!When programmers make users wait in line at the entrance, that’s an irritating barrier to entry. The web browser makes it easy to walk away and redirect our attention to 12 other places.
	
	If you’re skeptical about your own product’s barrier to entry, try doing some simple tests. `Give your software to ordinary humans—both technical and nontechnical—and observe their first minute or two`. You may be surprised at what you discover.

* Measure Usage, Not Users

	In pondering the size of your user base and whether it’s easy to get started, you should also consider how you measure usage. Notice that we said `usage, not installs or registered users`—you want a high number of users who use your product, not a high number of times people download your product.

	Usage is something that many companies (including Google) spend a lot of time measuring. Common metrics include `“7 day actives” and “30 day actives”`—that is, how many users have used the software in the past week or month. These are the important numbers that actually tell you how well your software is doing. `Ignore the download counts`. Figure out a way to measure ongoing activity instead. It’s the true indicator of software uptake.

* Speed Matters

	Most programmers vastly `underestimate the importance of application speed` (or latency, which sounds more scientific). When a program responds quickly, it has a deep `subliminal effect` on users. They start using it more and more because it feels `frictionless`. It becomes an `unconscious extension` of their abilities. On the other hand, a slow application becomes increasingly frustrating over time. Users start using the software less and less, often without even realizing it.

	Even small improvements in latency matter when you’re serving a web-based application.Improving latency is one of the best ways to increase usage and make your users happy. `“Speed is a feature.”`

* Don’t Be All Things

	Some of the best software succeeds because it `defines the problem narrowly and solves it well`. Instead of solving every problem badly, it solves really common problems for most users and does it really well.

* Don’t Be Lazy

	Making software easy for users can be a great annoyance to the programmer. Focus on the user, not what’s convenient for you to code. If it’s annoying to code, just suck it up anyway.

* Hide Complexity

	An elegant design `makes easy things easy and hard things possible`. Even when doing complex things your software should `feel seamless and easy.`

	While masking complexity is laudable, it is not a goal to seal the software so tight that it ends up handcuffing all your users. Hiding complexity almost always involves creating `clever abstractions`, and as a programmer you need to assume that the `abstractions will eventually “leak.”`
	
	Not only is it important to keep the interface flexible and able to be circumvented; the user’s `data needs to be accessible` as well.Software shouldn’t lock users in, no matter how elegant the interface is. By allowing users to open the hood and do whatever they want with their data, it forces you to compete honestly: people use your software because they want to,not because they’re trapped. It’s about engendering trust, which is your most sacred resource.

##Managing Your Relationship with Users

Many users `want to have a relationship` with your company or team. Happy users want to know what’s going on with your software’s evolution; angry users want a place to complain.

In reality, customer service isn’t a nasty, soul-draining task; nor is it something that other people do. It’s a philosophy to live by—a way of thinking about your ongoing connection to users. It’s something you need to `do proactively as a software team`, not as a mere reaction to external complaints.

Even if they make inane suggestions or clueless complaints, the most important thing you can possibly do is `acknowledge` them. The more you allow them to participate in the discussion and development process, the more loyal and happy they’ll be. You don’t have to agree with them, but you still need to `listen`.

Many corporations do everything they can to put up `walls of bureaucracy between programmers and users`. They create voicemail trees to navigate through or file complaints as “help tickets” that are tracked by layers of people who aren’t actually writing the software. Messages are `relayed only indirectly` through these layers, as though direct contact with the dangerous rabble might `endanger developers (or pointlessly distract them from coding)`. This is how users end up feeling ignored and disempowered and how developers end up completely `disconnected`.

A much better mode of interaction is to `directly acknowledge users`.Give them a public bug tracker to complain in and respond to them directly.Create an email list for them to `help one another`.The more “human” you appear to users, the more they trust in the product,and despair begins to lessen.Only through true dialogue can you discover what they’re `really doing with your software`, possibly something clever or thrilling.

* Don’t Be Condescending

	When you finally have an opportunity to interact with them, the most important thing to remember is to `avoid condescension`. Being a savvy computer user is not a fair measure of general intelligence. A lot of brilliant people out there use computers as a tool and nothing more.Users don’t want to participate in the analysisprocess; they just want to get some work done. It has nothing to do with intelligence! Give users respect by default.

* Be Patient

	Most users simply `don’t have the vocabulary to express their problems succinctly`. It takes years of practice to learn to understand what they’re saying.Half of the discussion comprises just trying to agree on the same vocabulary.The critical listening skill here is to learn to understand what people `mean`, not necessarily to try to interpret what they `literally` say. It requires not just some `language translation`, but some `emotional intelligence` as well. And `mind reading`.

* Create Trust and Delight

	`Trust` is a tricky term.When a user trusts your team (or your company) it’s mainly an `emotional state`.They trust you because the cumulative set of interactions they’ve had with you add up to an overall emotionally positive state.Remember, `there is no such thing as a temporary lapse of integrity`.
	
	Screw your customers just a teeny bit every now and then, and eventually they view the relationship through a veil of aggregated disdain. On the other hand, every time your team does something helpful or useful, or is responsive, a bit of trust is added to an imaginary bank account in their minds.Over years of dealings the trust account grows and grows until the mention of your product brings a warm, fuzzy feeling.
	
	Trust can be `dangerous`, however, because it can be blown all at once—just like a bank account can be drained with a single stupid, impulsive, overpriced purchase. If your company does something that shows a total lack of respect for users (even if by accident), the trust bank is emptied overnight.

	Trust is your most `sacred resource`. Watch it carefully. Measure the size of the bank account. Before every move, think about how it will affect the bank account. `Focus on your long-term image`, not short-term conveniences.

	`Delight` is another feeling that can vastly improve your relationship with users. It’s a way of increasing that warm, fuzzy feeling, and making your team seem more human.Adding bits of delight and humor—tactfully—goes a long way toward showing that you’re actually paying attention to users and care about your relationship with them.
	
##Remember the Users

In the end, it all boils down to three simple concepts that you can stick in your pocket:

* Marketing		Be aware of how people perceive your software; it determines whether they even try it out.* Usability
	If your software isn’t easy to try, fast, friendly, and accessible, users will eventually walk away.* Customer service	Proactive engagement with long-term users affects your software’s evolution and user retention.

Our day jobs as programmers are so `full of distractions—code reviews, design reviews, fighting with our tools, putting out production-related fires, triaging bugs`—that it’s easy to forget `the reason we’re writing software` at all. It’s not for you, or your team, or your company. It’s to `make life easier for users`. It’s critical to pay attention to what they’re thinking and saying about your product and how they’re experiencing it over the long run. Your users are the lifeblood of your software’s success.



